.\" Copyright 2003-2005, Thiago Silva
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THIAGO SILVA AND CONTRIBUTORS 
.\" ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, 
.\" THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"
.TH GPT 1
.SH NOME
gpt \- compilador, interpretador e tradutor da linguagem G-Portugol

.SH SINOPSE
  gpt 
[ 
.BR \-vhid
] [
.BI \-ots  
arq_saida 
] arquivo1 arquivo2 ...

.SH DESCRIÇÃO
.I gpt
é um compilador simples para a linguagem G-portugol. Além de criar executáveis,
pode interpretar algoritmos e traduzí-los para a linguagem C.
Um algoritmo pode ser formado por vários arquivos, cada um podendo conter, por exemplo, funções. Os arquivos são passados na linha de comando, sendo que o primeiro arquivo do algoritmo deve ser aquele que contém o bloco principal.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-v
Exibe informações de versão e termina execução.
.br
.ns
.TP
.BI \-h
Exibe sumário de opções termina execução.
.br
.ns
.TP
.TP
.BI \-i
Executa o algoritmo em modo 
.I interpretação.
.br
.ns
.TP
.BI \-d
Mostra dicas no relatório de erros.
.br
.ns
.TP
.BI \-o " arq_saída" 
Compila o algoritmo e salva o arquivo executável com o nome
.I arq_saída.
.br
.ns
.TP
.BI \-t " arq_saída"
Traduz o algoritmo para a linguagem C e salva o arquivo com o código resultante
como
.I arq_saída.
.br
.ns
.TP
.BI \-s " arq_saída"
Compila o algoritmo mas não cria código executável. Salva o arquivo com código em assembly como
.I arq_saída.
.br
.ns
.SH VEJA TAMBÉM
.BR nasm (1)

.SH INFORMAÇÕES ADICIONAIS

Para maiores informações, visite o website em: 
.br
.BI http://gpt.berlios.de

.SH AUTOR
Thiago Silva <thiago.silva@kdemail.net>

